(UPS and power consumption advice, with personal information redacted.)

(This summarizes my personal experiences with the named equipment, and
does not represent the views of my employer or constitute professional
advice.)


The UPSs we're using in lab space are the Eaton 9PX3000RT model. This lacks
some of the features of their larger UPSs but can run off of 110V from a
wall outlet, and is still enough to run ephys equipment and one high-power
computer for long enough to safely withdraw probes during a prolonged loss
of power. My planning scenario was "power goes out while the experimenter
is in the bathroom". Planned worst-case UPS run-time was about 30 minutes.
If more than one computer is on the circuit, I'd either use a second UPS for
it or add one of the external battery packs for that series of UPS (model
9PCEBM72VRT).


There are two main vendors of UPSs selling in the US: APC and Eaton. Eaton
tends to be slightly more expensive but I'm told that APC tends to over-rate
their components, so you need to over-spec the power rating if you're using
an APC UPS, and the end result is about the same cost-wise. I use
consumer-grade APC UPSs at home and spec Eaton's enterprise-grade UPSs for
our lab.


There are several considerations when buying an enterprise-grade UPS:

- Power and run-time are independent parameters. Most UPSs give about 15
minutes of backup at their rated maximum power using the internal batteries.
You can extend that run-time by connecting or wiring in external battery
packs (very common). What I did instead was over-spec the UPS (a 3 kVA UPS
running a 1.5 kVA load will run for 20-30 minutes without external
batteries).

- Estimate worst-case power draw by looking at the ratings of computer
power supplies and of your equipment. Bear in mind that UPSs _and_
computers usually quote VA or kVA rather than W or kW. These are not
necessarily the same (it depends on assumptions made about the load), so
when in doubt keep everything in "kVA" and assume that 1 kW = 1.5 kVA. For
runtime reasons _and_ to avoid excessive wear on the UPS, I recommend using
a UPS with a kVA rating double the maximum expected load. That should give
you a run-time of about half an hour.

- UPSs can be rack-mounted or indepent tower-style models (PC style for the
smaller ones, or a mini-rack of their own for the larger ones). If you're
already rack-mounting the ephys equipment, a rack-mount UPS can be
convenient, but it depends on how your space is set up. UPSs and their
batteries are very heavy, so with heavier rack-mounted equipment, make sure
you have a way to safely mount it (two people or a lift cart, and enough
space around the rack to fit).

- UPSs may be configured to output 110 V, 220 V, or both. Likewise, the
"power distribution units" (rack-mounted power strips) are rated to either
110 V or 220 V. This is because most computer equipment these days tolerates
220 V input, and using that voltage means you only need half the current
running through the cabling, which is important when you have a rack full of
computers each burning multiple kW. For your purposes, this means you have
to check that there are enough 110 V outlets for your equipment, and/or that
you need to buy a PDU with 110 V style plugs (the 220 V plugs have the same
pins but with a reverse-polarity shroud, if I remember correctly).

Normal 110 V outlets are "NEMA 5-15". The 220 V outlets are "C13/C14".
C13/C14 is also used for the _input_ to computer power supplies; a normal
computer cord is NEMA 5-15 male to C13/C14 female. A 220 V computer cord is
C13/C14 on both ends. You can find photos at:

https://www.cablestogo.com/learning/connector-guides/power

- UPSs can run off of single-phase 110 V, two-phase 220 V, or three-phase
208 V. Anything larger than the 9PX series will need 2- or 3-phase.
Anything that draws more than 30 amps will need to be wired in rather than
plugging in (there are 30-amp plugs in one of our labs for our eventual
system's big UPS; I think they were 3-phase but I'd have to doublecheck).
The main downside to wiring in a UPS is that you can't move it afterwards.

- Some UPS models will let you plug in external battery packs; others need
them to be wired in. Anything that needs to be "wired in", even if it's
simple to do, requires an electrician for legal reasons.

- The big UPSs have "N+1 redundancy". This means they'll continue working
even if one of the power modules burns out, and the power modules are
designed to be safely swapped while the UPS is running. This is the sort of
thing you want for medical equipment. Unfortunately the big UPSs run about
$10k-$20k and have to be wired in, so we're not presently using N+1
redundant UPSs.

- Enterprise-grade computers usually have the option of coming with
redundant power supplies. Since power supplies are often one of the first
things that goes on a computer, you have the option of using such a machine
to run your ephys equipment so that it's more likely to keep running after
its first hardware failure (letting you safely disengage the equipment). In
practice, we aren't presently doing this ourselves (our big system's
machines are set up like this but that system is not presently in service).
A computer built to enterprise specs (intended to be running in a rack 24/7)
costs about $1000-$2000 more than a comparable consumer-grade machine.


Considerations with our building:

- There is an emergency generator but it's already over-loaded. So, we
can't add circuits to it. If we could, then a 10-minute backup time would
be fine (it just has to keep power steady while the generator kicks in and
filter the generator's start-up transient). Persuading the administration
to buy a larger backup generator is a long-term option if there are
multiple labs worried about operating during power failures.

- The building's panel circuits are also near-capacity. Wiring in new
circuits, especially ones that might take large amounts of power (like the
outlets for our planned big UPS), can take creativity. What they did for us
was run a branch off of the main trunk line to a second breaker panel near
our lab, rather than trying to assign breakers from the main panel to us
(since there weren't enough left). They might have to do something similar
for you, depending on your needs.

- This suggests to me that the building itself is near capacity for power.
This probably isn't an immediate problem, but I expect that if all of the
building's circuits started drawing something close to their rated power
the main breaker would trip before any of the panel breakers did. The
practical upshot of this is that the electricians wiring in your circuits
will take a bit of time to figure out which of the building's phases should
be supplying your lab, to keep the load balanced, and may come to you with
unusual requirements for your setup (related to how the building supplies
and distributes power).


Long story short, for 110 V equipment that can work with the power your lab
presently has, Eaton's "9PX" series is a reasonable choice, using a UPS
rating of twice your expected load. If you plan to run anything really
power-hungry (such as our big setup's computers), more exotic solutions are
needed, with associated setup issues.

CDW carries Eaton's UPSs up to and including the middle-range enormous ones,
and is one of our university's standard vendors, so sourcing from them is
probably the option of least hassle if you go this route.

I hope that this information is useful to you!
